Mars is the fourth planet from the Sun and the second smallest planet in the Solar System, after Mercury.Named after the Roman god of war, it is often referred to as the "Red Planet" because the iron oxide prevalent on its surface gives it a reddish appearance Mars is a terrestrial planet with a thin atmosphere, having surface features reminiscent both of the impact craters of the Moon and the valleys, deserts, and polar ice caps of Earth. 

The rotational period and seasonal cycles of Mars are likewise similar to those of Earth, as is the tilt that produces the seasons.

Mars is the site of Olympus Mons, the largest volcano and second-highest known mountain in the Solar System, and of Valles Marineris, one of the largest canyons in the Solar System. The smooth Borealis basin in the northern hemisphere covers 40% of the planet and may be a giant impact feature. Mars has two moons, Phobos and Deimos, which are small and irregularly shaped. These may be captured asteroids, similar to 5261 Eureka, a Mars trojan. 

	Mars System
 Two dark, lumpy moons orbit Mars, and scientists suspect the planet stole them from the nearby asteroid belt. Phobos and Deimos, both discovered by the persistent moon hunter Asaph Hall, are among the smallest moons in the solar system. But in the future, they may become crucial way stations for humans attempting to establish a permanent presence on the Martian surface.

Phobos
Resembling a ruddy space potato, Phobos is snuggled close to Mars, looping around the planet three times each Martian day. But that orbital embrace won’t last forever: Phobos is slowly falling from the sky, and in another 50 million years or so it either will be ripped into a ring by Mars’s gravity or will crash into the planet’s surface.

Deimos
Smaller than Phobos and farther from Mars, irregularly shaped Deimos swings around the planet once every 30 hours. It has two named surface features, Swift and Voltaire, both honoring writers who hypothesized the existence of Martian moons before they were discovered. Unlike Phobos, Deimos is slowly drifting away from Mars and will eventually escape the planet’s gravity.